---
title: Understanding FetchFailedException Message
publish: true
draft: false
enableToc: true
tags:
  - Spark
  - Debug
cssclasses:
  - page-rainbow
---

Debugging complex Spark Applications requires the ability to understand what the thrown exception message actually means.

Here's what FetchFailedException looks like and how we understand what it's trying to tell:

```bash
Lost task 71.0 in stage 436.0 (TID 16079) (ip-192-168-247-152.emretl.prod01-crdrp.net executor 34): Fetch Failed(BlockManagerId(12, ip-192-168-205-146.emretl.prod01-crdrp.net, 7337, None), shuffleId=80, mapIndex=27, mapId=15506, reduceId=70, message=org.apache.spark.shuffle.FetchFailedException
......)
```

It's pretty clear that this is a reducer stage, i.e., Stage reading data processed by the previous stage.
## Breakdown
This exception message has 3 sections:
### Reducer Stage Details
- **Current Stage ID:** 436.0 (`0` represents the very first run)
- **Task Index:** 71.0 (`0` represents the First Task Attempt). The Task Index is the position of a task within a stage.
- **TID:** Unique identifier for a Task in a job.

### Remote Executor Details
The entire block in `BlockManagerId(...)` provides the details from where `task 71 of stage 436` is trying to fetch shuffle data from.
- **Executor ID:** 12
- **Executor Node IP:** `ip-192-168-205-146.emretl.prod01-crdrp.net`
- **Port on Node:** 7337 (This is [[External Shuffle Service]] Port)

### Data Block Details
- **shuffleId:** Unique identifier for the shuffle operation across the entire Spark application. Each shuffle stage gets a unique ID.
- **mapIndex:** The partition index within the map stage that produced the data being fetched
- **mapId=15504:** Unique identifier for the specific map task that generated the shuffle data.
- **reduceId:** The partitionID of the reduce task that was trying to fetch the data.

## How it's read?
This is FetchFailedException indicating that:
- Task 71.0 in Stage 436.0 failed while trying to fetch shuffle data
- The reduce task (partition 69) couldn't retrieve data generated by a remote executor with id `12` ran on node `ip-192-168-205-146.emretl.prod01-crdrp.net`
- The data was originally produced by map task `16079 (partition 27)` in shuffle `80`
- The failure occurred when executor `34` tried to fetch from from `BlockManager` on executor `12` or `External Shuffle Service` (based on port `7337`) running on node `ip-192-168-205-146.emretl.prod01-crdrp.net`
